packages/consent/consent-wrapper-onetrust/README.md, before:

This package is for the OneTrust integration for analytics consent


# Quick Start


## Install dependency 

```sh
npm install @segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust

# or

yarn add @segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust
```

## For `npm` library users


- Use the following initialization code 
```ts
import { oneTrust } from '@segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust'
import { AnalyticsBrowser } from '@segment/analytics-next'

export const analytics = new AnalyticsBrowser()

oneTrust(analytics)
analytics.load({ writeKey: '<MY_WRITE_KEY'> })

```

## For snippet users (window.analytics) who _also_ use a bundler like webpack
### *NOTE:* a pre-bundled version that can be loaded through a `<script>` is on the roadmap, but _not_ supported at this point

- Install the dependency (see directions)
- Delete the `analytics.load()` line from the snippet

```diff
- analytics.load("<MY_WRITE_KEY>");
```

- Use the following initialization code 

```ts
import { oneTrust } from '@segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust'

oneTrust(window.analytics)
window.analytics.load('<WRITE_KEY>')

```

Commit message:

Consent: Use Category ID i.e. Cookie Consent Group ID only  (#919)

packages/consent/consent-wrapper-onetrust/README.md, after:

This package is for the OneTrust integration for analytics consent


# Quick Start

## Configure OneTrust + Segment
### Ensure that the OneTrust Banner SDK is loaded first
```html
<head>
<!-- This should be included before the Segment snippet -->
  <script src="https://cdn.cookielaw.org/scripttemplates/otSDKStub.js" type="text/javascript" charset="UTF-8"
    data-domain-script="0000-0000-000-test"></script>
```

### Ensure that consent is enabled and that you have created your Integration -> Consent Category Mappings
- Ensure that your integrations in the Segment UI have consent enabled, and that they map to your Consent Category IDs (also called Cookie Group IDs or Cookie Consent IDs).
The IDs look like "CAT0001", "CAT0002"and are configurable in OneTrust
![onetrust category ids](img/onetrust-cat-id.jpg)

-  Debugging: this library expects the [OneTrust Banner SDK](https://community.cookiepro.com/s/article/UUID-d8291f61-aa31-813a-ef16-3f6dec73d643?language=en_US) to be available in order interact with OneTrust. This library derives the group IDs that are active for the current user from the `window.OneTrustActiveGroups` object provided by the OneTrust SDK. [Read this for more information [community.cookiepro.com]](https://community.cookiepro.com/s/article/UUID-66bcaaf1-c7ca-5f32-6760-c75a1337c226?language=en_US).

## Install dependency

```sh
npm install @segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust

# or

yarn add @segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust
```

## For `npm` library users

- Use the following initialization code

```ts
import { oneTrust } from '@segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust'
import { AnalyticsBrowser } from '@segment/analytics-next'

export const analytics = new AnalyticsBrowser()

oneTrust(analytics)
analytics.load({ writeKey: '<MY_WRITE_KEY'> })

```

## For snippet users (window.analytics) who _also_ use a bundler like webpack
### _NOTE:_ a pre-bundled version that can be loaded through a `<script>` is on the roadmap, but _not_ supported at this point

- Install the dependency (see directions)
- Delete the `analytics.load()` line from the snippet

```diff
- analytics.load("<MY_WRITE_KEY>");
```

- Use the following initialization code

```ts
import { oneTrust } from '@segment/analytics-consent-wrapper-onetrust'

oneTrust(window.analytics)
window.analytics.load('<WRITE_KEY>')
```
